# -portfolio-
This is my public portfolio for the Telling Stories with Data Class at CMU

# About Me
My name is Ernest Rajakone and I identify using the prnouns he/him/his. This portfolio is part of my coursework for the Telling Stories with Data Class at CMU, my final course before graduating from the Master of Public Management Program at Heinz College, Carnegie Mellon University. I currently work for the City of Pittsburgh in the Office of Community Affairs, following previous stints at Planned Parenthood and on local campaigns. Following graduation, I hope to continue working in local government.

I've lived in Pittsburgh since 2011, when I moved here to attend the University of Pittsburgh. While at Pitt, I majored in Political Science and minored in History, and was very involved on campus. Moving to Pittsburgh was a formative experience for me and I'm grateful for the diversity in experiences I've gained in calling this city home. My family are Sri Lankan Tamils who left the island during the nation's civil war, and despite being born in the Bronx, I lived most of my life in rural America. Before Pittsburgh, I most recently lived in Central Pennsylvania. 

# What I Hope to Learn
From this course, I hope to learn how to effectively utilize data to inform initiatives and shape policy in local government. Due to my professional life, this knowledge would be practically useful. In particular, I hope this course is able to provide me with a skillset to create effective visualizations of data. But most importantly, I hope this course provides me with an increased understanding on how to analyze data that is presented to me and effectively create narratives around data available to me. 

# Portfolio
Here is where all my data visualizations will go. 

## Social Media Response in the Labour Party
<iframe title="Social Media Response in the Labour Party&amp;nbsp;" aria-label="Column Chart" id="datawrapper-chart-5oNat" src="//datawrapper.dwcdn.net/5oNat/1/" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" style="width: 0; min-width: 100% !important; border: none;" height="400"></iframe><script type="text/javascript">!function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}})}();</script>

## OIG - Data Visualization for Newspaper Reader
<div class="infogram-embed" data-id="2e5062c0-fe40-4375-8d60-d2eadc243a04" data-type="interactive" data-title="Data Journalist Data Visualization 1"></div><script>!function(e,t,s,i){var n="InfogramEmbeds",o=e.getElementsByTagName("script")[0],d=/^http:/.test(e.location)?"http:":"https:";if(/^\/{2}/.test(i)&&(i=d+i),window[n]&&window[n].initialized)window[n].process&&window[n].process();else if(!e.getElementById(s)){var r=e.createElement("script");r.async=1,r.id=s,r.src=i,o.parentNode.insertBefore(r,o)}}(document,0,"infogram-async","https://e.infogram.com/js/dist/embed-loader-min.js");</script><div style="padding:8px 0;font-family:Arial!important;font-size:13px!important;line-height:15px!important;text-align:center;border-top:1px solid #dadada;margin:0 30px"><a href="https://infogram.com/2e5062c0-fe40-4375-8d60-d2eadc243a04" style="color:#989898!important;text-decoration:none!important;" target="_blank">Data Journalist Data Visualization 1</a><br><a href="https://infogram.com" style="color:#989898!important;text-decoration:none!important;" target="_blank" rel="nofollow">Infogram</a></div>
When designing this data visualization, I did it in mind with the general public being the target audience. I thought of this visualization accompanying an article regarding the OIG report and thus helping provide a way to conceptualize what portion of the detained population was being detained for periods of times that exceeded the generally accepted standard. My use of the pie chart to speak to the general population and then the use of a item graphic to speak specifically to the proportion of the larger population to was to help this conceptualization be seen as part of the whole. By making the numbers being utilized clear through red coloring and the limited text included, it helped put the "whole" being analyzed to be understood in scale. The extended detaining of large populations is an especially pressing matter to the larger public when considering the issues occurring at the border so I wanted to desgin a visualization that helped put that in perspective.

## OIG - DHS Data Analyst Visualization
<div class="infogram-embed" data-id="8e97c52b-bf7f-44b7-be2c-16959e164fc3" data-type="interactive" data-title="DHS Analyst Visualization"></div><script>!function(e,t,s,i){var n="InfogramEmbeds",o=e.getElementsByTagName("script")[0],d=/^http:/.test(e.location)?"http:":"https:";if(/^\/{2}/.test(i)&&(i=d+i),window[n]&&window[n].initialized)window[n].process&&window[n].process();else if(!e.getElementById(s)){var r=e.createElement("script");r.async=1,r.id=s,r.src=i,o.parentNode.insertBefore(r,o)}}(document,0,"infogram-async","https://e.infogram.com/js/dist/embed-loader-min.js");</script><div style="padding:8px 0;font-family:Arial!important;font-size:13px!important;line-height:15px!important;text-align:center;border-top:1px solid #dadada;margin:0 30px"><a href="https://infogram.com/8e97c52b-bf7f-44b7-be2c-16959e164fc3" style="color:#989898!important;text-decoration:none!important;" target="_blank">DHS Analyst Visualization</a><br><a href="https://infogram.com" style="color:#989898!important;text-decoration:none!important;" target="_blank" rel="nofollow">Infogram</a></div>
When desiging this data visualization, as I was utilizing the perspective of a DHS Data Analyst, I wanted to portray the sheer increase of the number of apprehensions occuring. By demonstrating the sheer increase, I wanted to illustrate the argument that naturally this would strain the capacity of the resources at the border, based on what was being stated in the report, i there wasn't a serious investment in resources. I designed the bar graph to thus accurately demonstrate the numbers and types of apprehension by their classification (single adult, unaccompanied children, and family unit). I used red to demonstrate they were all part of the same issue but used varying shades of red with darker to exemplify the type of service that may require more resources. By breaking it down into the three different classifications, I hoped it would help provide perspective in the propotion of investment required for each. 

When considering the differences between the two audiences, I utilized different sets of data from the report to tell a different type of story. For the newspaper audience, which I deemed to be the general public, I wanted to help illustrate the nature of what portion of the detainees were being held beyond generally accepted standards. This was to help illustrate the conditions occurring in the camp so it cold be better understood within public discourse. When considering the DHS Audience, I wanted to demonstrate the sheer increase of people being apprehended so the need for the increase of resources would be more apparent. I expect this audience to look deeper into the discussion of the failures of the situation occurring from an administrative standpoint so I felt it was more important to represent the scale of the challenge faced.

## Data Visualizaton Critique #2
<iframe title="Differences in Perception of Aspects of Political Leadership By Gender" aria-label="Split Bars" id="datawrapper-chart-5oNat" src="//datawrapper.dwcdn.net/5oNat/2/" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" style="width: 0; min-width: 100% !important; border: none;" height="365"></iframe><script type="text/javascript">!function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}})}();</script>

The choices I made in this revision of the data visualization was to still maintain the use of the perspective of different perceptions as part of a whole through the use of a bar chart, but making it easier to discern the differences between perceptions by using a split bar chart. Through different shades of blue and more clear breakdown between the columns, I found it easier to digest in comparison to the other categories of perception. In addition to that, I reworded the language utilized to give a more accurate insight into what was measured. 

## OECD Data Visualization #2 - Part 1 - General Government Debt as Total % of GDP
<iframe src="https://data.oecd.org/chart/5CTk" width="860" height="645" style="border: 0" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true" allowfullscreen="true"><a href="https://data.oecd.org/chart/5CTk" target="_blank">OECD Chart: General government debt, Total, % of GDP, Annual, 2015</a></iframe>
